Notorious prisoner Charles Bronson has lost his latest bid to be freed from jail, the Parole Board has said.

The panel said he had a "history of persistent rule-breaking", "lives his life rigidly by his own rules" and was not suitable for release.

Bronson, 70, from Luton, was jailed aged 22 for armed robbery in 1974.

Now one of the UK's longest-serving prisoners, he took part in one of the country's first public parole hearings earlier this month.

Bronson, who changed his surname to Salvador in 2014, is currently held at HMP Woodhill in Milton Keynes and has earned a reputation as a violent and dangerous inmate.

In a document detailing the decision, the Parole Board said: "After considering the circumstances of his offending, the progress that Mr Salvador has made while in custody and the evidence presented at the hearings, the panel was not satisfied that Mr Salvador was suitable for release.

"Nor did the panel was to the Secretary of State that he should be transferred to an open prison."

Responding to the decision, Bronson's son George Bamby said: "I would have loved Charlie to have been released but completely respect the decision of the Parole Board."

The panel said psychologists instructed by Bronson's legal representative were "unequivocal in their view" that he no longer required secure placement at HMP Woodhill.

"It is unclear whether the strong external controls of custody are mainly responsible or whether his attitudes have genuinely changed," the board said.

"The panel could not be satisfied that Mr Salvador has the skills to manage his risk of future violence until he has been extensively tested outside of his current highly restricted environment.

"In the particular circumstances of this case the panel observed that there is an identified pathway for Salvador in custody and the evidence supported such a move within a closed prison.

"This is a pivotal point in Mr Salvador's sentence when his motivation to desist from violence is at its highest."

Bronson has spent most of the past 48 years behind bars - apart from two brief periods of freedom during which he reoffended - for a string of thefts, firearms and violent offences, including 11 hostage-taking incidents in nine different sieges.

Victims included governors, doctors, staff and, on one occasion, his own solicitor.

Bronson was handed a discretionary life sentence with a minimum term of four years in 2000 for taking a prison teacher at HMP Hull hostage for 44 hours.

Since then, the Parole Board has repeatedly refused to direct his release.

Three parole judges considered his case during a hearing at HMP Woodhill, while members of the press and public watched part of the proceedings on a live stream from the Royal Courts of Justice in central London.

Bronson told the panel he loved a "rumble" and enjoyed mass brawls in prison, but insisted he was now a reformed prisoner, had found solace in art and was a man of "peace".

He likened his experience in front of the Parole Board to being on BBC programme, The Apprentice.

The panel was told Bronson spent 23 hours a day in his cell with limited contact with other inmates.

But it heard he would not cope with being released - even highlighting that he had never used a cash machine.

Bronson told the Parole Board hearing: "Of the 50 years I have been in prison I have probably deserved a good 35 of it.

"Because I have been very naughty. Not naughty-naughty but just naughty.

"Give me a chance, a break, to prove to you people that I am just a normal geezer wanting to get on with his life."


A rise in the state pension age to 68 will not be brought forward yet, the government has announced.

Those born on or after 5 April 1977 will be carried a first cohort to work to 68, under current plans. A 2017 government review suggested expanding this to include those born in the late 1960s.

The work and pensions secretary said the pension age would not be changed until a further review was carried.

A decision is now expected in 2026, after the next general election.

By law the government is required to examine planned changes to the system every six years.

A recent report found life expectancy for retiring Britons is now two years lower than when the government last reviewed the state pension age in 2017.

Labour said increases in life expectancy were being "dragged down" by a "rising tide of poverty".

A separate review by Baroness Neville-Rolfe looking at what factors the government should take into account when setting the pension age was published on Thursday.

And on Thursday, a further review was commissioned by Work and Pensions Secretary Mel Stride said look into raising the state pension age.

A further study was needed as the previous reviews were "not able to take into account significant external challenges including impact of the Covid pandemic and global inflation caused by Putin's illegal wat in Ukraine", Mr Stride said.

The new review will report within two years of the new parliament, he added.

Labour supported the government's position, but shadow work and pensions secretary John Ashworth said the government had last year said bringing forward an increase in state pension age "was absolutely necessary for the long term sustainability of the public finances".

"Now it turns out with general election only a year away the and the government trailing so badly in the polls, not raising the state pension age is not so reckless after all," he added.

The state pension is a monthly payment currently made to 12.5 million people who have reached qualifying age and have paid enough in national insurance contributions.

Next week, the amount paid will increase by 10.1% in line with the rising cost of living.

Work and Pensions Secretary Mel Stride will make a statement in the House of Commons later to confirm the conclusions of the latest statutory review on the pension age.

The Daily Express newspaper, where the story first appeared, said Mr Stride would announce a new review to be carried out after the next election.
